## Abstract

Traditional institutions for disseminating the results of scientific research ("publication") and allocating limited resources to new scientific inquiries ("funding") have led to immense social benefits, but are in some ways not well adapted to the modern scientific endeavor.
This document lays out design constraints for a new system, specifically that it should:

1. Sort rather than filter scientific outputs;
2. Provide distributed, compensated review;
3. Minimize barriers to participation in science and access to scientific results;
4. Distribute funding decisions;
5. Preserve data ownership; and
6. Overcome incumbent network effects.

We specify a candidate framework that meets these design constraints.
This framework—provisionally called the Distributed Science Frameowork (DSF)—acts as both a publisher and funder of science.
This framework would contain a monetary credit system, where users could gain credits by providing scientific reviews, and could spend credits to publish and download articles.
The cost to publish or download an article would be comparable to the compensation for providing a review, giving users the option of participating in the system without having to pay money.
Critically, the framework would also include a funding mechanism, where scientific funding organizations and philanthropists could contribute funds which would be distributed among authors according to the quality of their previously contributed articles.
This would both provide a distributed, flexible means of funding science and a financial incentive for new users to overcome network effects inherent to established publishers.
