(Citations and supporting information to be added throughout.)

## Introduction

Scientific discovery is necessarily a slow process: results of individual studies must be verified, vetted, and synthesized, and decisions must be made how to allocate resources among future investigative directions before work can continue.
These processes happen both at the micro scale within an individual scientist or lab group, and at the macro scale within members of a society.
The document is concerned with the latter scale.

At the society scale, vetting and synthesizing scientific results and allocating resources to future represent a coordination problem: many scientific stakeholders must coordinate to allocate constrained resources toward publishing existing studies and funding new ones.

Typically, the coordination problem is solved by centralization.
Organizations and individuals act as gatekeepers to determine which studies get peer-reviewed and published and which researchers and ideas are funded to continue their work.

The current system has delivered great increases in human understanding and quality of life, and should not be discarded, but has well-documented shortcomings.
An incomplete list includes the monetization and the monopolization of access to academic research output by for-profit publishing companies, and the concentration of funding allocation power in the hands of a small number of decision-makers who—like all humans—are biased may have narrow interests.
The most common alternative to centralized decision-making — market-based coordination — can be effective for funding research with clear monetization potential, but is not considered effective for research where the profit potential is not clear.

The centralization of scientific funding, synthesis, and dissemination is a bottleneck for the rate scientific advancement.
This document describes design constraints for a distributed system for scientific funding, dissemination, and synthesis, and then describes the components of a component distributed science framework.
