## Design constraints

### Sort, don't filter scientific outputs

Traditional scientific journals make binary publishing decisions: articles are either accepted or rejected.
This was necessary when physical, printed journals were the only method of dissemination, but is vestigial in the current electronic-delivery paradigm.
This is evidenced by the rapid adoption of preprint servers (e.g., https://arxiv.org/) and journals with pre-review "discussion" versions, both of which are much less selective of which articles they will publish than conventional journals.

However, preprint and discussion publishers seem to be supplementing rather than replacing traditional journals, suggesting that the peer-review process serves a valuable function of signaling which articles are the most important and useful.

### Provide distributed, compensated review

The traditional academic publishing system relies on reviews volunteered by scientist peers, where the definition of "peer" is determined by article authors and journal editors.
In addition to the fact that this results in for-profit publishers benefit from unpaid labor, this system results in reviewers being hard to find, the final number of reviews being small, and the review process taking a long time.
Additionally, the amount of thought put into each review can vary widely.
Because reviews are not credited or compensated, ideas and attitudes in reviews are skewed toward those of individuals for whom those considerations are less important, and therefore not necessarily representative of scientific stakeholders as a whole.

Scientific review should be compensated, and it should not be limited to the social networks of the article authors and journal editors.
Solutions exist for distributed review (e.g., https://prereview.org/, https://openreview.net/) and review recognition (e.g., https://www.sciencemag.org/careers/2016/02/getting-credit-peer-review), but stop short of offering monetary compensation or an equivalent incentive.


### Minimize barriers to access to and participation in science

In practice, the legacy publication system is only accessible to scientists who work for institutions that can afford subscriptions to journal packages, and even then it can be difficult to download articles, especially when off-campus.
For scientists and aspiring scientists not associated with such an organization, even when between jobs, and especially for those in low and low and middle income countries, access is often not possible.
Open-access journals aim to solve this problem, but in practice fees are often just shifted from readers to authors, making open-access publication an option only for highly-funded researchers.

### Distribute funding decisions

The current system of centralized funding decisions through public and private granting agencies and foundations, which rely on tacit knowledge accumulated within a relatively small set of individuals to predict which projects will be worthwhile and successful.
However, centralized decision-making can be inefficient and can propagate biases held by in-group grant officers and reviewers against out-group applicants and ideas.

We believe a distributed decision framework could provide a complementary utility to the existing centralized systems.
Distributed decision systems tend to have different biases from centralized systems, and the software systems which facilitate distributed decision making can be designed to reduce those biases.
Buterin et al. (2018; https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3243656) describe a new system for distributed funding decision which will serve as the core of our framework.

### Preserve data ownership

Scientific manuscripts are valuable, as are the reviews contributed by scientific peers and data that is collected regarding numbers of article downloads, social media shares and sentiment, etc.
Scientific publishers should commit to sharing revenue generated using this data with the individuals the contributed the data.

### Overcome incumbent network effects

Existing publishers benefit from strong network effects: scientists want to publish in established, prestigous journals to gain a wide readership and to signal the quality of their work.
Any successful upstart must have a strategy from overcoming these network effects and establishing its own.
