## Distributed Science Framework

Here we propose a candidate framework for meeting the design constraints above, the Distributed Science Framework (DSF).
The candidate framework acts both as a publisher and a funder of science.
At its core is the concept of Liberal Radicalism[@doi:10.2139/ssrn.3243656], a system for the efficient allocation of grant funding.
The key components are users, credits, articles, reviews, and grants.

### Components

#### Users

DSF users are online entities that are verifiably mapped to individual humans.
Verification is critical to avoid the gaming of the system, and will be accomplished by requiring each user to have an email address issued by an institution that is registered with DSF.
Although this still provides some barrier to participation by requiring users to be associated with a known institution, the requirements for registered institutions can be flexible—whatever the minimum is to signal that users are acting in good faith—and would not involve the expensive library subscriptions required by legacy publishers.

#### Credits

DSF credits are a digital currency system that can be converted to and from dollars or other global currencies.
Credits are used to distribute grants and review compensation and to pay for article uploads and downloads.
Notably, the credit system will not be a cryptocurrency, as current cryptocurrency systems are highly volatile and include a high barrier to entry.
It will be directly convertable to normal currency, e.g. 1 credit = $1, or perhaps just directly denominated in dollars.

#### Articles

Articles are scientific manuscripts, equivalent to articles in existing scientific journals.
Authors pay a fee to upload a manuscript, which is published immediately.
Authors must provide ownership fractions for each author (adding up to 100% for all authors) upon uploading an article.
Articles are only available to users; this could be enforced using DRM or blockchain technology, or using weaker methods currently favored by traditional publishers.
A new user gets one article download for free, subsequent articles must be paid for using credits.
The credits required to download an article will be approximately equivalent to the credits given for reviewing an article, so users can either pay to download an article with money by submitting a review of their previous download.

#### Reviews and metareviews

Users can submit reviews of articles they have read both using quantitative rubrics and text responses, similar to existing journals.
Unlike existing journals, reviewers would be compensated using credits.
Users would also receive compensation for submitting metareviews (reviews of reviews).

#### Grants

Agencies and individuals who wish to provide financial funds for science can register grants through DSF.
Funders can specify criteria that users must meet to be eligible for a grant (including topics of previous articles, location, etc.) and restrictions regarding what the grant money can be spent on.
Then, grant funds will be allocated among qualified users based on the quality of their previous articles.

Article quality will be determined by an algorithm that includes number of unique users that have downloaded the article, citations, and reviews.
Review scores will be weighted by results of metareviews and by the quality scores of articles authored by the reviewer.

Funds would be allocated among multiple authors of a paper according to the fractional ownership specified when the article was uploaded.

It is worth noting that this system of grant funding inherently makes decisions on the merits of past contributions rather than ideas for future work.
This gives funders less control over which projects are funded than is customary with traditional funding mechanisms, but also creates opportunities for philanthropic individuals and organizations that want to "give back" but do not have the expertise to determine which projects would be useful.
This system also would remove the burden associated with preparing grant proposals, and would reduce the barrier to participation associated with the common practice of using funding from a previous grant to generate "preliminary results" for use in applying for a future grant.

### Operational overhead and revenue model

DSF would need to be implemented and operated by an organization.
Functions of the organization would include creating and maintaining the DSF software infrastructure, moderating user content, and policing for abuse of the system.
Auxiliary functions of legacy publishers—such as copy-editing, type-setting, matching reviewers to articles, and writing press-releases—would be automated or outsourced though an ecosystem of third-party providers interacting through the DSF credit system.

Operational costs would initially be funded by grant overhead.
In the long run, the database comprising user interactions with DSF (articles, reviews, download counts, etc), would also be valuable in its own right (for example to generate automated literature reviews using AI), and access could be sold to third parties to provide additional revenue back to the users who contributed the data and to provide DSF operating revenue.

### How DSF meets the design constraints

* __Sort—don't filter—scientific outputs__: Articles are published immediately, but ranked according to reviews and metareviews. DSF will include searching and sorting algorithms the prioritize the return of high-quality articles but do not censor any articles (unless indicated on legal or ethical grounds).
* __Distributed, compensated review__: Users will be paid for reviews, and financially-constrained users can submit reviews in lieu of paying for article downloads and uploads.
* __Minimize barriers to participation in science and access to scientific results__: Downloading and publishing articles can be paid for by submitting reviews.
* __Distribute funding decisions__: Grants are distributed algorithmically based downloads and a distributed review system.
* __Preserve data ownership__: Users are compensated for reviews and for publishing high-quality articles.
Proceeds from selling database access to third parties are returned to users (minus operating expenses).
* __Break network effects__: Early adopters are incentivised to participate by the relatively easy access to grant funding. As the number of users increases, the competition for grant funding will increase, as will the prestige associated with having a highly-rated article.

### Core assumptions

Here we list some core assumptions built into the design of DSF:

1. __Users can be verifiably matched to individual humans__: The success of any liberal radical approach relies on successfully mapping system users to individual humans[@doi:10.2139/ssrn.3243656].
If one human can act as many users, then a distributed system is in danger of becoming a centralized one, centered around that individual.
DSF will initially use email identities issued by reputable institutions to perform this verification.

2. __Users can be prevented from colluding to affect outcomes__: The system could also be subverted by users colluding the boost rating of an article by flooding it with positive reviews and downloads or by creating a citation network among many low-quality articles. This type of collusion may not be completely avoidable, but we expect that a combination of automated and human moderation can minimize the damage caused by collusion.

3. __It is possible to build an algorithm that ranks article quality in a way consistent with traditional considerations of article scientific rigor, novelty, etc, and that authors will trust it to rate their work__:
There have recently been great advances in the quality of ranking and recommendation algorithms.
For DSF, we expect that because the algorithm will rely heavily on quantitative reviews from human users, and because the review scores will be weighted in part based on traditional metrics such as the number citations accumulated by a reviewer's articles, that the system will be familiar and transparent enough to gain trust.

4. __Funders will be amenable to giving up control of the projects they fund__: This may be objectionable to some funders, but it also may remove barriers to participation by other funders.

5. __Monetary incentives for publication will be enough to overcome the network affects associated with current funding and publication systems__: This seems plausible given that money is known to be a strong motivator.
